We're able to work with our places, with our images, storing it in the database and fetching it from there,
let's now make sure we also can view that on the place detail screen and also open the map there
in preview mode.
The place detail screen here can be a normal stateless widget because there, we won't need to change
anything,
give it a name of place detail screen to stay in line with the naming we used thus far in the course,
import the material.dart package here and then of course as always, since this is a standalone
page, add a scaffold widget. Now in there,
I'll add an appBar with a title where we could output the text, the name of the selected place and
there are different ways of loading this of course.
I will use an approach I showed you earlier in the navigation section, I expect to get the data, the
ID of the place as our argument here.
So I want to get my ID with ModalRoute.of and that's the pattern I showed you in the navigation
course section where you can tap into the settings of the routing action that loaded this page and
get your arguments from there
and I simply expect the ID to be my only argument there
and then we can use the provider package to fetch a place by ID. So let's import the provider.dart
file and let's also import our providers/great_places.dart file, so that here below the ID, we can
actually get the selected place with the help of provider of great places for our context and I'll set
listen: false because this page won't need to update,
there is no way our places can change whilst we are on the page
and then right now we can only get all items
but now I want a specific item with a specific ID.
Now we could fetch all items and do the filtering in here but you learned that it's a good idea to
outsource logic and get it out of your widgets.
So I want to add a new method to the great places class here, up here
and that should return me a single place and I'll name it find by ID, it will take an ID as an argument
and should then unsurprisingly return a single place.
So here, I want to return
_items.firstWhere
which will give me the first item where a certain condition is met and that condition is checked with this
function which we pass to firstWhere
which will execute on every place
here on your items and it will get that place as an input and return true if the place ID is equal
to the ID we're getting here.
So with that, we're identifying a single place in our list of items here and with that identified in
the place detail, here we can call find by ID and forward that ID which we are retrieving from our
route,
so now here, we can use selectedPlace.title to output that. Now besides the title in the appBar,
of course we want to have a body and in there, I want to display the image and then the address and a button which
allows us to view the place on a map.
So I'll add a column here and the children in that column should be a container which will wrap the image. So
I'll give that a height of let's say 250, a width of double infinity to take the full
width of the screen and then in there, a child which will take the image with a file provider because
we still have the image stored locally on our device,
so we'll need that and then we take selectedPlace.image which is a file because in our place
class, we work with a file, so we get a file right there
and on that image, I want to set the fit to BoxFit.cover and then also the width to double infinity
of course, to take the full container width for that image. So that's the container, below that we can
add a SizedBox with a height of 10 to add some spacing and then have a text widget to output the human
readable address.
So there, we can output selectedPlace.location.address which is that address, align that in
the center with textAlign.center
if you want to and maybe adjust the style a little bit, give it a text style where we set the font size
to 20 and give it a grey color, like this
and of course you can style this however you want or prefer to.
Then I'll add another SizedBox to have more spacing of 10 because below that, I want to have a flat
button which allows us to open the map, the fullscreen map to view the selectedPlace. So this will
have a child which is a text widget which could say view on map, so view the place on the map
basically and besides that, I'll set a text color based on my theme and there on the primary color
and onPressed, now the map screen should open up again.
Now for the map screen to open up, I need to import it here,
so let's import map_screen.dart from the same folder as we're in and with that import added down there,
in onPressed,
I'll add a function where I use navigator of context, so of context push and again, I'll create this here
on the fly with the MaterialPageRoute which gets a builder, gets a context and should return my map
screen widget here.
My return is on the fly because I need to pass some data to the map screen,
I want to pass in an initial location which is my selectedPlace.location because in the map screen,
my initial location is of type place location and that's exactly what I'm passing in and I also want
to pass in isSelecting and set this to false, though actually, that of course is our default here,
so we don't really need to pass this in, I'm doing it here to be really clear but you wouldn't need to
do that.
Now again on the MaterialPageRoute,
I'll set full screen dialog to true to change the appearance of that page a little bit
and with that, we should be able to view that and later also to close it.
Now to reach that place detail screen however, I'll give this my static const routeName
/place-detail so that we can register the place detail screen in the main.dart file in the routes table.
So there,
let's add an import pointing at the screens folder and there at the
place_detail_screen.dart file
and with that import added here, we can go down to the routes table and add PlaceDetailScreen.routeName
as a key
and then here we have that builder function which gets a context and creates a new place detail screen.
Now
last but not least, we need to hook up this onTap method in the place list screen on the ListTile
to load that.
So here, we can use navigator of context push and push that place detail screen and for that, we need
to import it here as well.
So import the place_detail_screen.dart file in the place_list_screen.dart file and with that import added,
down there, we of course want to push a named route first of all and then we use
PlaceDetailScreen.routeName and now we also need to provide arguments or one argument and that's the ID of
the place.
So the great places items for the given index.id, that's what we need to forward to the place detail
screen because that's what we're trying to retrieve there with this line and now let's do a full restart
and let's see whether that works, whether we're able to view that or not.
So let's wait for that to reload and visit another place here,
here we are,
that's looking good.
If I click view on map,
this opens up, shows me the map but doesn't add a marker and
so that's the one thing I'd like to have here in the map screen, I want to have a marker whenever a location
is chosen.
Right now, when we have no picked location, I show no markers.
Actually I want to show no markers
only if we have no picked location and widget.isSelecting is true. So if this here is false, if
we're not selecting, then I want to show a marker and the marker here should be picked location.
However if picked location is null and that's what we can check with the double question mark
operator, then I want to fallback to widget initial location.
However since we need a latlng thing here, we should create one on the fly here and that simply expects
to get the latitude as a first argument and longitude as a second,
so here I would then pass in widget initial location latitude and second argument, widget initial location
longitude.
So with that, we're creating such a location for the marker on the fly if picked location is null, which
it would be if we're not selecting
but then we would fallback to the initial location.
So let's give that a try and
let's do a full restart now and visit this place again,
view it on the map and that's looking good.
Now let's add another place, so click on the plus here,
a third place where I of course want to take a picture,
so let's open up the camera, take that picture here
and select another place on the map.
Now here since I'm in selecting mode, I have no marker added initially which is just as it should be
and now let me go a little bit further to the left here,
maybe choose this here,
then click confirm, that's looking good,
click add place and here the place is
and now if I click on that and view it on the map, we should hopefully see the marker.
there, here it is.
So that's all looking good,
by the way on the emulator, it's always a bit slower simply because this is quite heavy for the emulator,
it will run smoothly on a real device.
So this is now all working fine and of course, you can now continue working on this app to add more features
you learned about earlier, like pull to refresh or anything like that
but for now, we added all these core native device features I wanted to introduce you to in this module.